# SOP-Violation-Detection
System that will assist in the determinacy of the face mask and social distancing violations using the existing low-resolution technology of CCTV.
The novel coronavirus has marked 2019 as the birth year of the COVID-19 pandemic. The adverse consequences are not only in the form of death rates, infections, and mental health but other disruptions are business shutdowns, quarantine, lockdowns, poverty increment, and daily hustles in activities. Even though the vaccinated person has direct protection from the symptomatic infection of the virus but blackmail of delta variant and unavailability of data on its complete prevention is yet a mystery to the medical force. The non-pharmaceutical solution to prevent the breach of deadly virus demanded compliance to two main SOPs: 1) Face Masking and 2) Social Distancing. Other than being prevention guidelines from contagious viruses, these operating procedures are demanded in a wide variety of areas for safety purposes like in hospitals (Child Nurseries, Operation theaters, and wards for respiratory diseases), chemical industries, and medical research laboratories. The technology proliferation in the form of existing solutions has marked TensorFlow, OpenCV, and YOLOv3/v4 as pillars for object detection, image processing, and distance calculation. So, we have designed a system that will assist in the determinacy of the face mask and social distancing violations using the existing low-resolution technology of CCTV. The captured frames will be pre-processed to generate a dataset, later for the training of two detection modules: Face Mask and Person-Distancing. In parallel, each module of its importance will alert the authorities along with recording the information of the violator. All these frameworks will be embedded with efficient tools to achieve high accuracy in the results and eventually, mitigate threats. Last but not the least, the interface application will perfect the link between the computer user and system functionality.

# Web Application

## To run the web Application: 
streamlit run home.py
